
The gender wage gap is not specific to a certain demographic, rather it affects everyone around the world. 

Let's focus on this issue at an international scope, but also how it defers in each industry and how the social aspect comes into play.

Talking about the factors related to the industry,
By looking at the graph, we can see that more women work in jobs with flexible hours. And only around 10% of women work as aircraft pilots,  engineering managers, and other less flexible jobs. 

The majority of women opt for part-time jobs, so they tend to do jobs like social services, resulting in only a few % of women in higher positions like managers.

In hiring, companies give less room for women when it comes to negotiating their salaries. And often, women are not given additional privileges like bonuses, while men who are in the same position receive them.

Analysis of the UK's first Gender Pay Gap reports shows that the gaps vary across different business sectors, ranging from 10% in the manufacturing to 22.5% in the financial services sectors. These are typically sectors with the highest recorded gaps.

A 2017 study by the US National Science Foundations' annual census revealed pay gaps in different areas of science: there is a much larger proportion of men in higher-paying fields such as mathematics and computer science, the two highest-paying scientific fields.
 
The gender pay gap is not just a UK-centric or US-centric issue, and understanding the international picture is becoming essential for multinational employers.
The UK's Gender Pay Gap reporting regulations came into force in April 2017, and the first reports were published in April 2018. 

The UK regulations require private and voluntary sector employers with 250 employees or more to publish Gender Pay Gap data for their organization on an annual basis.  

Following similar policies, many countries have introduced an equal pay policy.
The two graphs show the hourly wage gap of lower-income countries and the median gender wage gap of lower-income countries.

Sri Lanka is considered a  lower-income country, and the weekly income of blue-collared employees is around is $33.5. And the gender wage gap is estimated to be 22.2%.

Another subtle aspect often unspoken off is the social aspect of the gender wage gap.
It's not something new, where we all hear people comparing women and men working in industries.
Some people believe in a superficial social norm where men are superior to women. They say women arent competitive enough, but the reality is that women do not have enough opportunities when compared to men.

Others say women are best suited for home, yet studies have shown that women are capable of advanced multitasking. At the end of the day what happens is that women undergo a lot of peer pressure at work.

Before moving onto anything else, let's quickly look at a clip on the gender wage gap.

