Good morning Miss and my fellow colleagues. Welcome to our presentation! Gender Wage Gap! For some of us to this is a cliche, and we may encounter this on a daily basis.  And for others, this may be just another phrase in the wild. So Let me formally define the gender wage gap: it is the difference between the median remuneration of men and women relative to men's median income. You might be wondering whether this calculated number bears any significance. The answer is yes!

The gender wage gap is a controversial topic and has been up for decades. Experts around the world have poured hours of work and research regarding this topic. And each of them had a different take on this subject. In our presentation, our goal is to show you why we took our stand and maybe debunk this controversy after all. There is no better place to start than the history of the gender wage gap.

We will not comb through the entire history for now, but we'll have a glance at the key milestones. 

Once upon a time, in the late 1800s, there was an increasing number of chatter on equal pay rights. An amongst the crowd emerged a young woman, Clementina Black, who was a pioneer in the Equal Pay movement. She was the honorary secretary of the Women's Trade Union Association. In 1888, she got the opportunity to attend the Trade Union Congress, where she moved a motion on equal pay for equal work.

In the years following her actions,  organizations tried to urge customers to put pressure on employers who paid low wages to women: this led to boycotts and protests.

Not even a decade goes by since these protests, and World War I breaks out.  During the war years, women undertook jobs that were usually carried out by men and proved they could do the work just as well. Between 1914 and 1918, millions of women replaced men in employment. 

As years pass by, when the after-effects of World War I started to subside, World War II begins. Women began to enter the industrialized workforce and the weapons industry, which were previously dominated by men. As a result, women's segregation began to diminish.

Although we have come to the bottom of the list, the next milestone has had the most impact of all: It is the passing of The Equal Pay Act in 1975. The primary goal of the act was to work towards the elimination of discrimination and to promote equality of opportunity between both genders. This has now been mostly superseded by the recent Equality Act of 2010.

Now that we had a small brush up on the history of the gender wage gap: let us move on to the reasons which cause it.


